Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an adventure,
drama, and romance film called "Monsters."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Six years ago, NASA discovers the first sign
of alien life within the solar system.
They initiate a plan to send a space probe
to collect samples of the foreign specimen.
However, the probe malfunctions and crashlands
in Mexico.
Aliens start appearing in the area; this is
known as the infected zone.
The war between the alien lifeforms and the
U.S. and Mexican Military persists up to the
present.
Photojournalist Andrew Kaulder sets foot in
a ruined building.
Debris covers a massive tentacle.
Firefighters surround the area looking for
potential bodies or survivors.
Andrew tries communicating with them, but
the firefighters don’t understand him.
Luckily, someone in the group knows a little
English.
Andrew is looking for the injured survivors,
and they point him towards the hospital.
Riding as a passenger on a motorcycle, Andrew
sees the colorful rural community of Mexico.
A tank passes nonchalantly, indicating that
the situation there took a turn for the worse.
Andrew enters the hospital and asks for Samantha
Wynden.
The nurse leads him to a room, and as he walks
through the hospital, he sees the people suffering.
Andrew sees Samantha, or Sam, sitting in a
room.
He introduces himself as an employee in her
father’s publishing company.
He asks about her broken arm, and she assures
him that everything is okay.
Andrew leaves immediately, not even a goodbye.
He talks to a man on a payphone; he appears
frustrated as the person he's talking to wants
Andrew to take Sam to the U.S.
However, he has other plans; Andrew intends
to cover the story in Mexico because this
can be his big break.
In the end, he has no other choice but to
escort Sam back home.
In a car, the two sit at the back, looking
out the window.
Sam observes the destruction and chaos in
the community while Andrew takes pictures
with his camera.
Sam asks the driver if he feels safe living
in the area, to which he replies that they
have nowhere else to go, so they make do with
what they have.
They arrive at a train station, and Sam talks
to her father on the payphone.
She says everything is fine with her, but
her father begs to differ.
He wants her to call her fiance, but Sam seems
reluctant.
Meanwhile, Andrew fights through the crowd
to get to the ticket booth.
He sees a poster showing an infected zone
between the U.S. and Mexico.
He then buys two tickets to the coast for
himself and Sam.
The train arrives, Sam is still on the phone,
and Andrew tells Sam to hurry as the train
would leave soon.
Sam's father hears Andrew's voice and asks
to talk to him.
Despite Andrew not wanting to speak to her
father, Sam gives him the phone.
With a tone of a caring father, he makes Andrew
understand what's at stake.
In under no circumstance shall he fail to
deliver Sam to safety.
They enter the train and sit down, feeling
relieved.
Sam converses with Andrew; they talk about
his photography and his desire to get his
photos on the publication's front page.
He helps remove her arm sling, and they proceed
with some small talk.
They get to know more about each other, then
Andrew catches a glance at Sam's engagement
ring, which quickly changes his mood.
Sam's fatigue finally catches up to her while
Andrew continues to take photographs.
He takes photos of the scenery, military helicopters,
and abandoned toxic materials.
Flashes of light from explosions can be seen
beyond the mountains in the train's direction.
Sam carefully makes her way to Andrew to inform
him that the train will turn back because
of mishaps in the way.
They get off the train, but Sam thinks it's
a bad idea.
Andrew assures her that they're miles away
from the infected zone.
The train leaves, and there they start their
journey on the cold dark road.
Andrew tries to talk to a local, but Sam interrupts;
she speaks Spanish and tells the woman they're
lost.
The woman invites them to her home and provides
them a map.
They communicate and find out that they're
far from the coast and can't get there by
train because the tracks are damaged.
In the next 48 hours, Sam and Andrew need
to reach the coast as the military will soon
initiate a 6-month border lockdown.
Knowing the journey ahead will be gruesome
and tiring, they spend the night in the woman's
home, eating and having a bit of banter with
one another.
The woman asks if the two are married, and
Sam laughingly says no.
Andrew voices out that he's single.
Andrew contemplates something while watching
the news but soon falls asleep.
Andrew takes a picture of a bunch of kids
playing.
He instructs them to put on a mask depicting
a scene of how a war-torn environment can
affect the lives of innocent youth.
They say their goodbyes, and the two go on
their way, with Andrew seeming to be in a
hurry.
Andrew asks if Sam is married, she replies
that she's only engaged.
They walk along the long road, trying to hitch
a ride with the passing vehicles.
A kind-hearted driver allows them to ride
the back of his pickup truck.
Multiple signs show they're nearing the infected
area.
They talk with another man at the back of
the pickup truck, and they find out that there's
a bus stop at a nearby village.
They speak with the locals, and Andrew takes
more photographs of the conditions of the
community.
Sam confronts Andrew and asks if he's okay
with the fact that he profits from bad things
happening.
He jokingly rebuts that it's the same thing
with doctors.
They ride the bus and continue on their journey.
Along their journey, they ride numerous vehicles
up until they reach the coast.
Andrew tries to purchase ferry tickets but
finds out they’re too expensive.
He tries haggling with the man to no avail
and still ends up buying the tickets.
After a while, Sam and Andrew begin being
flirty with each other.
The night comes, and Andrew finds himself
in Sam's room while waiting for his room to
be ready.
Sam says that she needs a bath; Andrew teases
Sam by offering to scrub her back for her.
But she's quick to turn him down.
The news grows scarier as they announce that
the movement of the creatures is becoming
more and more rampant.
They talk for a while; then Sam takes the
bath that she's been longing for.
Andrew takes this opportunity to make a call
to his son to wish him a happy birthday.
Sam asks who he's talking to, but he lies
and says that it's just reception.
He gives Sam her privacy, and they meet outside
a couple of minutes later.
They take this time together to enjoy the
culture of the community.
They eat, drink, and experience all the wonders
the place can offer, seeming like this is
the calm before the storm.
However, the vibe suddenly changes when they
enter a cemetery.
What meets them is the heartbreaking sight
of men, women, and children who died because
of the aliens and the military’s bombs.
The happiness in their faces is quickly replaced
by sorrow and grief.
They sit in a local shop while drinking alcohol.
They talk about what lies ahead for Sam.
She plans to get home to her fiance, get married,
living their version of a happily ever after.
Andrew is jealous, but not because she's getting
married, but because her future looks more
fun than his.
They celebrate the night away, drinking and
laughing.
Andrew rambles on about dolphins, and the
random conversations continue, leading them
to Sam's room.
Words from his mouth seem to be endlessly
pouring out, feeling as if he doesn't want
the night to end.
He jokes about his room not having air conditioning
and Sam's room having a king-sized bed.
Even though Sam laughs at all his jokes, she
doesn't give in to his quips.
Andrew's patience grows thinner, so he asks
if she wants to make out.
But like all his past advances, it fails,
and she leaves him hanging once again.
Sam lays in her bed, and she opens the television
that coincidentally plays a documentary about
the alien creatures' mating process.
This leads to her calling her fiance, who
is too busy to pick up.
Meanwhile, Andrew's night is just getting
started.
He's at the local shop, drinking as many shots
of tequila as he can.
The morning comes, Andrew awakens on his bed
naked with a woman.
He hears a knock and opens the door to see
Sam.
They say their good mornings, and she invites
him for a cup of coffee.
Andrew accepts her invitation and asks for
a moment so he can get ready.
Sam sees the woman in Andrew’s bed and quickly
retracts her invitation.
Sam is visibly hurt, appearing that the sight
of a woman in Andrew’s bed had ruined her
morning.
Sam leaves in a hurry, and a half-naked Andrew
chases after her.
Andrew confronts her as she stands by the
pier.
He asks her if this is the end for them, to
which she replies yes.
Andrew then questions why she isn't on the
boat yet.
Sam says she can't, leaving Andrew feeling
a rollercoaster of emotions.
However, she further clears things up by saying
Andrew has her passport.
Andrew hurries back to his room to get the
passport.
He scours his room but couldn’t find their
passports.
Feeling defeated, they return to the ticketing
booth and resort to demanding another ticket.
The man cannot give another ticket because
the military has begun initiating the lockdown.
Sam butts in, suggesting that she'll travel
by land if she needs to.
They negotiate the price for the journey,
accounting for transportation, protection,
and bribery; they will need 10 thousand dollars.
Andrew tries to trade in his watch and camera,
but the man doesn't accept.
Leaving her with no choice, Sam gives up her
engagement ring.
Andrew is shocked; he finally realizes the
consequences of his actions, and the guilt
eats him up.
The man accepts the ring and gives tickets
to both Andrew and Sam.
The two arrive at the checkpoint of the entrance
into the infected zone.
They get through after bribing a guard.
More negotiation occurs, and they finally
board a small boat.
As the group sail through the body of water,
peace radiates as the relaxing sound of birds
chirping and the motor running fills the silence.
They dock the boat for a while to refill gas.
Sam relieves himself behind a building.
Suddenly, they hear a creature howling.
The guards are on high alert, readying their
weapons.
The two return to the boat, but Sam looks
uneasy and keeps turning back to the direction
of where the howl came from.
On the boat, they talk about Andrew's son,
Tommy.
Delving more into his personal life, Andrew
tells a story about his ex.
And how it took her two years to let Andrew
know that he has a son, only to tell him not
to consider himself as Tommy's father.
Andrew then changes the subject.
In the middle of the river, the boat breaks
down.
The sun starts to set, and the boat remains
at a standstill.
Darkness isn't the only thing that stalks
the group, as a disturbance in the water alerts
them.
Sam shines a light into the water while Andrew
takes photographs.
A fighter jet ascends from the depths of the
river.
Not long after, tentacles come rising, pulling
the plane down.
Sam tells the men fixing the motor to hurry
up.
Luckily, the engine starts back up, and they
speed away.
The sun rises, and along with it is Sam, waking
herself up to see the beautiful scenery.
As they pass along sunken vessels, they see
bloody handprints.
A group of armed men meets the two; they're
the next group that'll escort them through
the infected zone.
The night arrives, and the group camps out
in the wilderness.
Their destination is close, and they will
soon start their journey after another family
accompanies them.
The group tells tales about the creatures'
appearance and behavior.
American planes drop chemicals around that
area, and the creatures despise it.
Andrew asks why they drop chemicals, to which
a man replies that it's to rid of the infected
environment.
Andrew and Sam soon find out that the creatures
aren't the only thing that makes up the infected
zone, but rather, the trees in the area are
extra-terrestrial as well.
With every touch, the trees react.
The man further explains that these are pre-mature
alien lifeforms.
When they mature, they submerge into the river
and into the oceans to reproduce.
Back at the camp, the two share an intimate
moment as Andrew rebandages Sam's arm.
The danger of their situation continues to
grow, but their feelings for one another prosper.
The night resumes, and a man uses Andrew's
camera without his permission.
Chaos and gunshots from a walkie-talkie wake
up the group.
They quickly ride out, interrupting Andrew,
who frantically looks for his camera.
Vehicles line up, and in one of them, Andrew
and Sam sit all confused and worried.
They ask what's going on, but a man denies
an answer and demands them to stay quiet.
The men start putting gas masks on, and Andrew
complains why they don't get to wear them
as well.
They hear a creature screech, and the vehicle
in front of them gets abducted by the monster's
tentacles.
The group of men exit the vehicle and start
firing at the monster.
The gunshots stop, and the creatures close
in on the two.
Andrew punches the lights out, hoping that'll
be enough to eliminate any trace that they're
there.
The creature walks past them, and they are
relieved.
The following day, Andrew exits the vehicle
and inspects the area around them.
He sees a car stuck in the branches of a tree
and calls out for any survivors.
He throws up as he tries to get near the remains
of a mangled man.
He then retrieves his camera.
They find that they’re the only ones left
alive.
Sam continues to call out Andrew, but he still
ignores her.
He sees the corpse of a young girl while walking
through the destruction that the creature
left.
He pays his respects and covers her up.
Sam struggles to hide her shock.
Andrew grabs another gas mask, and the two
continue to reach their destination.
They walk along the hills, the grass, and
the forest.
Sam asks Andrew to stop as she has to pee.
As she relieves herself, Sam sees a temple.
They climb up and see the wall separating
America from the infected zone.
They contemplate their experiences, realizing
a different perspective of looking at America
from the other side of the wall.
And that the difficulties and horror won't
matter as soon as they get to the other side.
With a teary eye, Sam changes the topic this
time around.
They talk about something funny, like how
Sam practiced laughing when she was young.
Andrew teases her because of this, and they
share an even more intimate moment than the
last time.
The next day, they begin their final trek.
The two talk more about Andrew's personal
life until they reach the border.
No one is there, so they climb up, making
their way to the evacuation site.
A rotting creature lays on top of a house,
and Andrew ventures in to take more pictures.
Suddenly, they hear a squeaking noise.
They cautiously investigate to find out the
origin of the sound.
To their surprise, they see someone pushing
a cart.
The woman halts as soon as she hears Sam call
out to her.
The two take a closer look, and the woman
is seen wearing an American flag around her
neck.
Sam asks if the woman has seen anyone else.
Weirdly enough, she replies by furiously quacking.
The two are taken aback by what the woman
did.
She goes on his way, saying she has something
to do.
They find themselves 3 miles away from the
evacuation site.
In the distance, they see the light from a
gas station.
They dial 9.1.1.
And reports that they need assistance.
The woman advises them to stay where they
are as an army patrol is nearby and is on
their way.
Andrew makes a phone call outside to greet
Tommy with a happy birthday.
Tommy says he misses him, making Andrew choke
up a bit.
Andrew becomes more emotional as he talks
more with Tommy.
He promises to catch up with him as soon as
he gets home.
Meanwhile, Sam is inside also making a phone
call to her fiance.
While talking, she sees a frustrated Andrew
sitting outside.
She says goodbye to her fiance and tells him
she loves him but looks at Andrew as she speaks
the words.
Unbeknownst to the two, a monster has appeared
on top of the gas station.
Sam is unaware and hears the door opening.
She sees tentacles making their way into the
store.
Sam notices that the creature's tentacles
absorb energy from the television.
She turns it off, and the creature leaves
the store.
Outside, another creature appears, and the
two monsters interact.
They connect and mate with one another, displaying
a mesmerizing scene.
The two went their separate paths, leaving
Andrew and Sam dumbfounded by what happened.
Military vehicles then approach them.
Sam says she doesn't want to go home.
They both lean in for a kiss; everything leading
up to that moment made it even more special,
giving the same feeling like the connection
that happened between the two creatures.
On the radio, a man reports that they have
sight of one male and one female, and they're
heading in to retrieve them.